Update GPU docs (#5515)
flyteorg/flyte: docs/user_guide/productionizing/configuring_access_to_gpus.md

.. tags:: Deployment, Infrastructure, GPU, Intermediate
```

Along with compute resources like CPU and memory, you may want to configure and access GPU resources. 

Flyte provides different ways to request accelerator resources directly from the task decorator. This page covers the requirements and procedures to leverage them. 

> >The examples in this section use [ImageSpec](https://docs.flyte.org/en/latest/user_guide/customizing_dependencies/imagespec.html#imagespec), a Flyte feature that builds a custom container image without a Dockerfile. Install it using `pip install flytekitplugins-envd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples in this section use [ImageSpec](https://docs.flyte.org/en/latest/user_guide/customizing_dependencies/imagespec.html#imagespec), a Flyte feature that builds a custom container image without a Dockerfile. Install it using `pip install flytekitplugins-envd`.
```

> ## Requesting a GPU with no preference for device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Requesting a GPU with no device preference
```

> The goal in this example is to run the task on a single available GPU :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we run a task on a single available GPU:
```

```python
from flytekit import ImageSpec, Resources, task

image = ImageSpec(
    base_image= "ghcr.io/flyteorg/flytekit:py3.10-1.10.2",
     name="pytorch",
     python_version="3.10",
     packages=["torch"],
     builder="envd",
     registry="<YOUR_CONTAINER_REGISTRY>",

>  )

Reviewer 2: I do not think this this works with the `envd` image builder. This should work tho:

```python
image = ImageSpec(
    name="pytorch",
    python_version="3.10",
    packages=["torch"],
    builder="default",
    registry=...
)
```

@task(requests=Resources( gpu="1"))
def gpu_available() -> bool:
   return torch.cuda.is_available() # returns True if CUDA (provided by a GPU) is available
```

> ### How it works?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How it works
```

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flyteorg/static-resources/main/flyte/deployment/gpus/generic_gpu_access.png)

> When this task is evaluated, `flyteproller` injects a [toleration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) in the pod spec:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this task is evaluated, `flytepropeller` injects a [toleration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) in the pod spec:
```

Author: oh my , good catch, thanks!

```yaml
tolerations:    nvidia.com/gpu:NoSchedule op=Exists
```

> The Kubernetes scheduler will admit the pod if there are worker nodes in the cluster with a matching taint and available resources.

Reviewer 2: When `accelerator` is not specified and there are multiple GPUs accelerator types configured, how does Kubernetes decide which accelerator to use?

Author: Great question. Currently K8s uses 3rd-party Device Driver plugins that advertise Extended Resources (this is, things other than CPU and memory) to the kubelet. In the case of NVIDIA, their GPU operator implements this approach using a DaemonSet that communicates with the K8s scheduler to let it know which devices are available. While it works, it's not great because there's a lot of coordination required between the K8s scheduler and this external driver, no good management of "distributed locking" for shared resources, and in consequence, Pods can be scheduled to a node but left in Pending state bc one of those Extended Resources is not ready.
This is changing with the introduction of Dynamic Resource Allocation (soon to be in beta on K8s 1.31) 

I just added [a brief note](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/pull/5515/files#diff-a0d7763c302fd0c5d6a029c8caa655ee9de0d6ce102da40dc8e2f793fe65f33eR45) about this but let me know if you think a better explanation is needed.

> The resource `nvidia.com/gpu` key name is not arbitrary though. It corresponds to the [Extended Resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/extended-resource-node/) that the Kubernetes worker nodes advertise to the API server through the [device plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-gpus/scheduling-gpus/#using-device-plugins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource `nvidia.com/gpu` key name corresponds to the [Extended Resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/extended-resource-node/) that the Kubernetes worker nodes advertise to the API server through the [device plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-gpus/scheduling-gpus/#using-device-plugins).
```

> >NVIDIA maintains a [GPU operator](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/gpu-operator/latest/index.html) that automates the management of all software prerequisites on Kubernetes, including the device plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NVIDIA maintains a [GPU operator](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/gpu-operator/latest/index.html) that automates the management of all software prerequisites on Kubernetes, including the device plugin.
```

**flyte-core**
```yaml
configmap:
  k8s:
    plugins:
      k8s:
        gpu-resource-name: <YOUR_GPU_RESOURCE_NAME>
```

**flyte-binary**
```yaml
configuration:
  inline:
    plugins:
      k8s:
        gpu-resource-name: <YOUR_GPU_RESOURCE_NAME> 
```

If your infrastructure requires additional tolerations for the scheduling of GPU resources to succeed, adjust the following section in the Helm values file:

**flyte-core**
```yaml
configmap:
  k8s:
    plugins:
      k8s:
        resource-tolerations:
        - nvidia.com/gpu: 
          - key: "mykey"
            operator: "Equal"
            value: "myvalue"
            effect: "NoSchedule"  
```
**flyte-binary**
```yaml
configuration:
  inline:
    plugins:
      k8s:
        resource-tolerations:
        - nvidia.com/gpu: 
          - key: "mykey"
            operator: "Equal"
            value: "myvalue"
            effect: "NoSchedule" 
```
>For the above configuration, your worker nodes should have a  `mykey=myvalue:NoSchedule` configured [taint](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/).

## Requesting a specific GPU device

> In this example, the goal is to run the task on a specific type of accelerator: NVIDIA Tesla V100 :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we run a task on a specific type of accelerator (NVIDIA Tesla V100):
```

```python
from flytekit import ImageSpec, Resources, task
from flytekit.extras.accelerators import V100

image = ImageSpec(
    base_image= "ghcr.io/flyteorg/flytekit:py3.10-1.10.2",
     name="pytorch",
     python_version="3.10",
     packages=["torch"],
     builder="envd",
     registry="<YOUR_CONTAINER_REGISTRY>",
 )

@task(requests=Resources( gpu="1"),
              accelerator=V100, 
              ) #NVIDIA Tesla V100
def gpu_available() -> bool:
   return torch.cuda.is_available()
```

> ### How it works?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How it works
```

When this task is evaluated, `flytepropeller` injects both a toleration and a [nodeSelector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector) for a more flexible scheduling configuration.

An example pod spec on GKE would include the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
spec:
  affinity:
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
          - key: cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator
            operator: In
            values:
            - nvidia-tesla-v100
  containers:
  - resources:
      limits:
        nvidia.com/gpu: 1
  tolerations:
  - key: nvidia.com/gpu  # auto
    operator: Equal
    value: present
    effect: NoSchedule
  - key: cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator
    operator: Equal
    value: nvidia-tesla-v100
    effect: NoSchedule
```
### Configuring the nodeSelector

> The `key` that the injected node selector uses corresponds to an arbitrary label that your Kubernetes worker nodes should already have. In the above example it's `cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator` but, depending on your cloud provider it could be any other value. You can inform Flyte about the labels your worker nodes use by adjusting the Helm values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `key` that the injected node selector uses corresponds to an arbitrary label that your Kubernetes worker nodes should already have. In the above example, it's `cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator` but, depending on your cloud provider it could be any other value. You can inform Flyte about the labels your worker nodes use by adjusting the Helm values:
```

```
While the `key` is arbitrary, the value (`nvidia-tesla-v100`) is not. `flytekit` has a set of [predefined](https://docs.flyte.org/en/latest/api/flytekit/extras.accelerators.html#predefined-accelerator-constants) constants and your node label has to use one of those values. 

## Requesting a GPU partition

`flytekit` supports [Multi-Instance GPU partitioning](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/getting-the-most-out-of-the-a100-gpu-with-multi-instance-gpu/#mig_partitioning_and_gpu_instance_profiles) on NVIDIA A100 devices for optimal resource utilization.

Example:
```python
from flytekit import ImageSpec, Resources, task
from flytekit.extras.accelerators import A100

image = ImageSpec(
    base_image= "ghcr.io/flyteorg/flytekit:py3.10-1.10.2",
     name="pytorch",
     python_version="3.10",
     packages=["torch"],
     builder="envd",
     registry="<YOUR_CONTAINER_REGISTRY>",
 )

@task(requests=Resources( gpu="1"),
              accelerator=A100.partition_2g_10gb, 
              ) # 2 compute instances with 10GB memory slice
def gpu_available() -> bool:
   return torch.cuda.is_available()
```

> ### How it works?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How it works
```

In this case, ``flytepropeller`` injects an additional node selector expression to the resulting pod spec, indicating the partition size:

```yaml
spec:
  affinity:
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
          - key: nvidia.com/gpu.accelerator
            operator: In
            values:
            - nvidia-tesla-a100
          - key: nvidia.com/gpu.partition-size
            operator: In
            values:
            - 2g.10gb
```

> Plus and additional toleration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``flytepropeller`` also injects an additional toleration:
```

```yaml
  tolerations:
  - effect: NoSchedule
    key: nvidia.com/gpu.accelerator
    operator: Equal
    value: nvidia-tesla-a100
  - effect: NoSchedule
    key: nvidia.com/gpu.partition-size
    operator: Equal
    value: 2g.10gb
```

> In consequence, your Kubernetes worker nodes should have matching labels so the Kubernetes scheduler can admit the Pods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, your Kubernetes worker nodes should have matching labels so the Kubernetes scheduler can admit the Pods:
```

def gpu_available() -> bool:
   return torch.cuda.is_available()
```

#### How it works?

By default, the task is scheduled on a `2g.10gb` MIG partition.

`flytepropeller` only injects the node selector that matches nodes with an `A100` device:

```yaml
spec:
  affinity:
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
          - key: nvidia.com/gpu.accelerator
            operator: In
            values:
            - nvidia-tesla-a100
```

### Request an unpartitioned A100 device
The goal is to run the task using the resources of the entire A100 GPU:

```python
from flytekit import ImageSpec, Resources, task
from flytekit.extras.accelerators import A100

image = ImageSpec(
    base_image= "ghcr.io/flyteorg/flytekit:py3.10-1.10.2",
     name="pytorch",
     python_version="3.10",
     packages=["torch"],
     builder="envd",
     registry="<YOUR_CONTAINER_REGISTRY>",
 )

@task(requests=Resources( gpu="1"),
              accelerator=A100.unpartitioned, 
              ) # request the entire A100 device
def gpu_available() -> bool:
   return torch.cuda.is_available()
```

#### How it works?

> When this task is evaluated `flytepropeller` injects a node selector expression that only matches nodes where the label specifying a partition size is **not** present:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this task is evaluated, `flytepropeller` injects a node selector expression that only matches nodes where the label specifying a partition size is **not** present:
```

```yaml
spec:
  affinity:
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
          - key: nvidia.com/gpu.accelerator
            operator: In
            values:
            - nvidia-tesla-a100
          - key: nvidia.com/gpu.partition-size
            operator: DoesNotExist
```
The expression can be controlled from the Helm values:

**flyte-core**
```yaml
configmap:
  k8s:
    plugins:
      k8s:
        gpu-unpartitioned-node-selector-requirement :
          key: cloud.google.com/gke-gpu-partition-size #change to match your node label configuration
          operator: Equal
          value: DoesNotExist
```
**flyte-binary**
```yaml
configuration:
  inline:
    plugins:
      k8s:
        gpu-unpartitioned-toleration:
          gpu-unpartitioned-node-selector-requirement :
          key: cloud.google.com/gke-gpu-partition-size #change to match your node label configuration
          operator: Equal
          value: DoesNotExist
```

> Scheduling can be further controlled by setting in the Helm chart a toleration that `flytepropeller` injects into the task pods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduling can be further controlled by setting a toleration in the Helm chart that `flytepropeller` injects into the task pods:
```

Author: Maybe it's because English is not my native tongue :) but I read the suggestion as if it's the Helm chart that is injected

Reviewer: Oh, I see what you mean -- you can disregard my suggestion, then, the original text is much clearer!

Author: Thank you!
